{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-BoldOblique;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red47\green47\blue47;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\csgray\c24200;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs46\fsmilli23100 \cf2 "Appointment Start" Booking Settings Explained\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 "Appointment Start" is a setting IntakeQ offers to help with your appointment availability when\
clients schedule through your Booking Widget. In some cases, providers need a different availability\
throughout the work day than the duration time selected for the service.\
**Note: Your services created in the booking settings also allow for similar settings to be customized\
per service. This means you can have each service list different slot times available based on its\
settings, rather than as a whole across the system.**\
Navigate to: Bookings > Booking Settings > Settings Tab.\
Based on session duration: This takes your starting time, and then the duration of the appointment\
and breaks it down based on the service duration time.\

\f1\i For Example:
\f0\i0  If your office hours start at 8 am and you have a 60-minute appointment duration for the\
service, clients can only book at 8 am, 9 am, 10 am, 11 am, 12 pm, etc. The system will see you have 60\
minutes for the appointment duration, opening 1-hour slots throughout the day for this service.\

\f1\i **Note this follows the service duration you listed in the service itself. If other services have a different\
duration time, then the system will follow that. Also, be aware that blocks in the calendar will change whats\
available for that hour slot.**
\f0\i0 Maximize Bookings: This setting takes all factors into account and tries to squeeze in the most\
appointments possible. Factors taken into account include:\
1. Previous appointments\
2. Time blocks on the calendar\
3. Intervals Between Appointments\
4. Advanced service setting "Block Practitioners for x minutes".\

\f1\i **NOTE: THE INTERVAL BETWEEN APPOINTMENT SETTINGS WILL NOT TAKE EFFECT UNTIL THE APPOINTMENT\
IS BOOKED WHEN USING MAXIMIZE BOOKINGS.**\
For Example: 
\f0\i0 The service with a 60-minute duration and a 15-minute interval will show open slots on\
the widget for 8 am, 9 am, 10 am, 11 am, 12 pm, etc. The interval selected on the service will not show\
the 15-minute interval option until the service is booked. For this reason, we highly suggest if you need\
added time to the service for a practitioner, please use the Advanced service settings option "Block\
practitioner Time for..XX".\
Appointments start every x minutes: This option simply takes the start time and allows you to start x\
intervals regardless of the session duration for the service.For example: If you select the setting"Appointment start every Hour", and your office hours start at 8:30 am, then the system will show your\
open slots on the booking widget as 8:30 am, 9:30 am, 10:30 am, etc. Even if your session duration for\
the appointment is 30 minutes.\

\f1\i **Note: This setting takes time blocks into account on the calendar.**\

\f0\i0 For Example: If you have created a time block from 12 pm to 12:15 pm, with the "Appointment start\
every Hour" setting, then the system resets the hour starting at now 12:15 pm. Then continuing list the\
open slots as 1:15 pm, 2:15 pm, etc.\

\f1\i **Note: The issue mentioned above about "Intervals" applying once the appointment is booked applies here\
as well for this setting option.**\

\f0\i0 Custom start times: Please see our helpful article Custom Appointment Start Times - IntakeQ &\
PracticeQ Guides (//support.intakeq.com/article/331-custom-appointment-start-times).\
Each practitioner on your team has the ability to use this feature, see the following article for setting\
practitioner-specific booking settings: Booking Settings for Practitioners on a Team\
(//support.intakeq.com/article/321-booking-settings-for-practitioners-on-a-team)\

\f2\b0\fs24 \uc0\u58880  
\fs18 Still need help? Contact Us (#)\
Last updated on May 29, 2024\

\f0\b RELATED ARTICLES\

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Appointment Time Preference (/article/159-appointment-time-preference)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Booking Settings for Practitioners on a Team (/article/321-booking-settings-for-\
practitioners-on-a-team)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Custom Appointment Start Times (/article/331-custom-appointment-start-times)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 How to Change the Duration of an Appointment (/article/202-how-to-change-the-duration-\
of-an-appointment)\

\fs16\fsmilli8100 \'a9 IntakeQ (https://practiceq.com) 2025. Powered by Help Scout (https://www.helpscout.com/docs-refer/?\
co=IntakeQ&utm_source=docs&utm_medium=footerlink&utm_campaign=Docs+Branding)
\fs46\fsmilli23100 Booking Settings for Practitioners on a Team\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 IntakeQ allows you to have multiple practitioners (//support.intakeq.com/article/16-multiple-\
practitioners) within a team account, giving you the ability to have separate calendars, client lists, form\
templates, services, etc. for each practitioner. Practitioners can also control their individual booking\
settings as well, allowing them to override various account defaults.\

\fs27 Jump to a Section\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 How to Set Individual Practitioner Hours (#hours)\
How to Adjust Individual Practitioner Settings (#settings)\
How to Customize Individual Practitioner Emails (#emails)\
How to Sync a Different Google/Outlook Calendar (#calendar)\
How to Use a Different Payment Provider (#payment)\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 How to Set Individual Practitioner Hours\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 As a non-admin practitioner, you have the ability to set your own hours for each location setup in the\
team. This will make the booking system use your hours as opposed to the default hours at each\
location. To adjust your hours, follow the steps below:\
1. Navigate to "Bookings > Booking Settings" and select the "My Hours" tab.\
2. Check the option labelled "Override Clinic Hours", and select the location you want to adjust the\
hours for (if there are multiple).\
3. You'll be able to set your own specific hours that will override the default clinic hours.
\fs31\fsmilli15750 How to Adjust Individual Practitioner Settings\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 Each practitioner on a team can adjust their booking settings as well, such as the time interval between\
appointments, appointment lead time, appointment confirmation method, etc. To adjust these\
settings, follow the steps below:\
1. Navigate to "Bookings > Booking Settings" and select the "Settings" tab.\
2. Check the option labelled "Override Clinic Settings", just above that you can adjust your personal\
timezone as well.\
3. You'll be presented with a list of booking settings you can adjust, which will override the default\
settings of the clinic.
\fs31\fsmilli15750 How to Customize Individual Practitioner Emails\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 Each practitioner on a team can adjust the various email templates that are used for appointment\
confirmations, reminders, etc. To adjust these and override the default email templates, follow the\
steps below:\
1. Navigate to "Bookings > Booking Settings" and select the "Emails" tab.\
2. Click "Add Email", and you'll be presented with a list of email templates you're able to customize.\
3. For additional information on what these emails do and how to set them up, please see the\
following article: Automated Emails (//support.intakeq.com/article/80-automated-emails)
\fs31\fsmilli15750 How to Sync a Different Google/Outlook Calendar\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 Each practitioner on a team can sync their own Google or Outlook calendar, which can be set to show\
up on the team calendar or the individual practitioner's calendar view. The steps below show where to\
go to sync your own calendar, separate from the calendar setup on the main booking settings:\
1. Navigate to "Bookings > Booking Settings" and select the "Sync" tab.\
2. To sync a Google Calendar click "Connect with Google Calendar".\
3. To sync an Outlook Calendar click "Connect with Outlook Calendar".\
4. For each you'll be prompted to sign-in to your Google/Outlook account and follow the steps to\
complete the sync.
\fs31\fsmilli15750 How to Use a Different Payment Provider\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 If permitted by the account administrator, each practitioner has the ability to use their own\
Stripe/Square account. This will allow each practitioner to process payments for their clients that go\
straight into their bank account, as opposed to the entire team sharing one provider. This option is not\
enabled by default, follow the steps below to enable it for specific user roles on your team:\

\fs27 Adjusting the User Role Settings\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 1. As the account admin, navigate to "Team > Roles" and select "Edit" next to the role of the user\
group you're looking to give additional payment provider options to. You can also create custom\
user roles if you'd like, for additional information on setting permissions, see the following article:\
Setting User Permissions (//support.intakeq.com/article/179-setting-user-permissions)\
2. In the user role permissions dialog, look for the section titled "Appointment Permissions", under\
this you'll want to check off the box beside "Can edit Payment Provider".
\fs27 Using a Different Payment Provider\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 Please read the following article before using multiple payment providers within one IntakeQ\
account: Using Multiple Payment Providers (//support.intakeq.com/article/321-booking-settings-for-\
practitioners-on-a-team)\
After adjustment the user role permissions as noted above, you will gain access to a new tab in the\
booking settings for additional practitioners. Follow the steps below to setup a different payment\
provider to be used as opposed to the one setup on the main admin account:\
1. Navigate to "Bookings > Booking Settings" and select the "Payments" tab.\
2. Checked the box next to the option labelled "Override Clinic's payment settings".\
3. You will be shown the Stripe and Square icons, click on one of them to proceed with the connection\
process.
\f2\b0\fs24 \uc0\u58880  
\fs18 Still need help? Contact Us (#)\
Last updated on April 19, 2024\

\f0\b RELATED ARTICLES\

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 How to Setup Online Booking and Payment (/article/75-how-to-set-up-online-booking)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Automated Emails (/article/80-automated-emails)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Using Multiple Payment Providers (/article/358-using-multiple-payment-providers)\

\fs16\fsmilli8100 \'a9 IntakeQ (https://practiceq.com) 2025. Powered by Help Scout (https://www.helpscout.com/docs-refer/?\
co=IntakeQ&utm_source=docs&utm_medium=footerlink&utm_campaign=Docs+Branding)
\fs46\fsmilli23100 Booking Widget Javascript Events\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 If you are embedding IntakeQ's booking widget on your website, you can use javascript to listen to\
widget events and perform your own logic. The most common scenario is to use the "Appointment\
Booked" event in order to track it using an analytics tool, like Google Analytics. Let's look at how to\
listen to these events.\

\fs27 "Widget Loaded" Event\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 As you probably guessed, this event is triggered when the booking widget has been loaded successfully\
on the page. In order to listen to this event, simply add an "intakeqWidgetLoaded" event listener to\
the same page where the booking widget has been embedded.\

\f3\fs18 <script>\

\f2\b0 document.addEventListener("intakeqWidgetLoaded", 
\f3\b function
\f2\b0 (e) \{\
//YOUR CODE HERE\
\});\

\f3\b </script>\

\f0\fs22\fsmilli11250 This event can be used to record events like 'Viewed Widget' in your analytics tool.\

\fs27 "Appointment Booked" Event\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 This even is triggered whenever a website visitor has completed the process of booking an\
appointment. In order to listen to this event, simply add an "intakeqAppointmentBooked" event\
listener to the same page where the booking widget has been embedded.\

\f3\fs18 <script>\

\f2\b0 document.addEventListener("intakeqAppointmentBooked", 
\f3\b function
\f2\b0 (e) \{\
console.log(e.detail)\
\});\

\f3\b </script>\

\f0\fs22\fsmilli11250 Note that this event will provide the appointment details in the "detail" property of the event\
argument. By executing the code above, you should get a result similar to this in your console:
\f2\b0\fs18 \{\
"MemberId": "5330eb98c5771921282d2ab1",\
"ClientName": "John Smith",\
"ClientEmail": "john.smith@gmail.com",\
"ClientPhone": "(123) 123-4567",\
"ClientNote": 
\f3\b null
\f2\b0 ,\
"Date": "2018-06-21T16:00:00Z",\
"Duration": 60,\
"ServiceId": "e3f20995-3133-4c89-b456-b347a3eb7c7f",\
"Paid": 
\f3\b false
\f2\b0 ,\
"FormSent": 
\f3\b false
\f2\b0 ,\
"ClientQuestionnaireId": 
\f3\b null
\f2\b0 ,\
"Status": 2, // 2 = Confirmed, 1 = Waiting Confirmation\
"PaymentInfo": 
\f3\b null
\f2\b0 ,\
"ServiceName": "Follow Up",\
"Price": 75,\
"LocationId": "1",\
"LocationName": "Office",\
"LocationAddress": "105 Dulgaren St, Hamilton, ON L8W 3Y8, Canada",\
"CouponCode": 
\f3\b null
\f2\b0 ,\
"Discount": 0,\
"ClientTimezoneId": "Eastern Standard Time",\
"LocalTimezoneId": "Eastern Standard Time",\
"ClientAppointmentPackageId": 
\f3\b null
\f2\b0 ,\
"InvoiceId": 
\f3\b null
\f2\b0 ,\
"InvoiceNumber": 0,\
"InvoiceStatus": 0,\
"AdditionalClients": [],\
"DepositPaymentInfo": 
\f3\b null
\f2\b0 ,\
"RealDuration": 20,\
"EndDate": "2018-06-21T17:00:00Z",\
"ConfirmationSent": 
\f3\b true
\f2\b0 ,\
"LocalDate": "2018-06-21T12:00:00",\
"AmountDue": 75,\
"TotalAmountPaid": 0,\
"Id": "5b29a168cd4cac07d8441b3f",\
"dateFormatted": "Jun 21, 2018 at 12:00 PM",\
\}\

\f0\b\fs27 "Package Sign Up" Event
\fs22\fsmilli11250 This event is triggered whenever a website visitor has completed the process of signing up for a\
package. In order to listen to this event, simply add an "intakeqPackageSignUp" event listener to the\
same page where the booking widget has been embedded.\

\f3\fs18 <script>\

\f2\b0 document.addEventListener("intakeqPackageSignUp", 
\f3\b function
\f2\b0 (e) \{\
console.log(e.detail)\
\});\

\f3\b </script>\

\f0\fs22\fsmilli11250 This event will provide the package details in the "detail" property of the event argument. By executing\
the code above, you should get a result similar to this in your console:
\f2\b0\fs18 \{\

\f3\b AmountDue
\f2\b0 : 250,\

\f3\b AppointmentPackageId
\f2\b0 : "cc412280-e736-4c80-9f0e-eeac91db49e0",\

\f3\b ClientId
\f2\b0 : "14115df3-f133-4aca-b768-4dd7f2d809a1",\

\f3\b ClientPaymentPlanId
\f2\b0 : 
\f3\b null
\f2\b0 ,\

\f3\b ClientQuestionnaireId
\f2\b0 : 
\f3\b null
\f2\b0 ,\

\f3\b ClientTimezoneId
\f2\b0 : "Eastern Time",\

\f3\b CouponCode
\f2\b0 : 
\f3\b null
\f2\b0 ,\

\f3\b DateCreated
\f2\b0 : "2020-09-10T16:24:42.6410862Z",\

\f3\b Discount
\f2\b0 : 0,\

\f3\b Email
\f2\b0 : "jackblack@email.com",\

\f3\b Id
\f2\b0 : "5f5a534acd4cb03dbc075673",\

\f3\b InitialPrice
\f2\b0 : 250,\

\f3\b Items
\f2\b0 : [\
\{\

\f3\b AppointmentId
\f2\b0 : "5f5a534acd4cb03dbc075674",\

\f3\b Date
\f2\b0 : "2020-09-17T17:00:00Z",\

\f3\b LocationId
\f2\b0 : "1",\

\f3\b MemberId
\f2\b0 : "5330eb98c5771921282d2ab1",\

\f3\b ServiceId
\f2\b0 : "669a318d-a071-45f1-9ba0-1864569aa8ff"\
\}\
],\

\f3\b MemberId
\f2\b0 : "5330eb98c5771921282d2ab1",\

\f3\b NoteFromClient
\f2\b0 : 
\f3\b null
\f2\b0 ,\

\f3\b PackageName
\f2\b0 : "Start Up Package",\

\f3\b Paid
\f2\b0 : 
\f3\b false
\f2\b0 ,\

\f3\b Price
\f2\b0 : 250,\

\f3\b QuestionnaireId
\f2\b0 : "58b508e48ded891e58091053",\
\}\

\f0\b\fs22\fsmilli11250 Important: Please note that if the client schedules at least one appointment as part of the package,\
the "Appointment Booked" event will also be triggered for the first scheduled appointment.\

\f2\b0\fs24 \uc0\u58880  
\fs18 Still need help? Contact Us (#)\
Last updated on July 31, 2024\

\f0\b\fs16\fsmilli8100 \'a9 IntakeQ (https://practiceq.com) 2025. Powered by Help Scout (https://www.helpscout.com/docs-refer/?\
co=IntakeQ&utm_source=docs&utm_medium=footerlink&utm_campaign=Docs+Branding)
\fs46\fsmilli23100 How Can Clients Manage Their Appointments?\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 IntakeQ gives your clients the ability to manage appointments they schedule with you (this feature can\
be disabled). Here is how they would go about performing tasks such as rescheduling or cancelling an\
appointment, or even booking a new one.\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 Rescheduling an Appointment\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 To reschedule an appointment, a client can do so by opening the appointment email that was sent to\
them.\
To change the appointment date and time, the client can click "Click here" to manage your\
appointments. This will guide your client to the Booking Login page where they enter their email\
address.After they enter their email address, the client will be prompted that an access code has been emailed\
to them. When they receive the access code email, they simply need to enter it into the access code\
field and click "Login".After the client enters the access code they will see a list of all their scheduled appointments. To the\
right of the status column is the "Reschedule" option (shown below).\
When the client clicks "Reschedule", the appointment calendar with the available time slots for that\
service will appear. This gives the client the ability to select the date and time they wish to reschedule\
the appointment to.When the client has finished choosing the date and time, they will receive a confirmation of your new\
appointment. Simply click "Reschedule Appointment", and the new appointment will be saved. The\
practitioner will receive an email to approve the appointment change. Once approved, the\
appointment will be rescheduled.
\fs31\fsmilli15750 Cancelling an Appointment\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 To cancel an appointment, the steps are very similar to the rescheduling process. After the client\
enters their access code and is at the list of scheduled appointments, on the far right is the "Cancel"\
option.\
When the client clicks "Cancel" they will be shown the cancellation confirmation page. Here, they can\
enter a reason for the cancellation to be passed on to the practitioner. The cancellation policy of the\
service will be shown, and if there are any penalties for cancelling they will be displayed as well. When\
they client is finished entering the reason for cancellation, they need to click "Yes, cancel this\
appointment" to finalize the cancellation.
\fs31\fsmilli15750 Scheduling Additional Package Appointments\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 If a client signed up for an appointment package but doesn't schedule all appointments that are part of\
the package, they can schedule the remaining appointments online.\
To do this, they will open the email they received after booking the package appointments and click\
"Click here" to manage the appointments. Then they will enter their email address and access code to\
gain access to the list of appointments in the package.\
When the client gains access to their list of appointments, they'll see the appointments that have yet to\
be scheduled are listed below the scheduled appointments.If they click "Schedule", they will see a calendar and all the available time slots for that service on that\
day. Once they've selected the appointment date and time, they'll enter their name and email address,\
and then click "Continue" to confirm the appointment.\
If the client wants to book the remaining appointments, they can click "Book another appointment".\

\f2\b0\fs24 \uc0\u58880  
\fs18 Still need help? Contact Us (#)\
Last updated on November 1, 2022\

\f0\b\fs16\fsmilli8100 \'a9 IntakeQ (https://practiceq.com) 2025. Powered by Help Scout (https://www.helpscout.com/docs-refer/?\
co=IntakeQ&utm_source=docs&utm_medium=footerlink&utm_campaign=Docs+Branding)
\fs46\fsmilli23100 How to Block Time Availability from my IntakeQ\
Calendar?\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 If your practiceQ calendar is linked to your Google or Outlook Calendar, all your blocked time on those\
calendars will automatically show as blocked on your practiceQ calendar. What if you haven\'92t linked\
them or just want to block time availability inside practiceQ? To do this, follow the steps below:\
1. Navigate to "Bookings" in the main menu.\
2. Click on "Block Time" above the calendar (as shown below).\
In the "Block Time" prompt fill out the information as you wish and click on "Save" to add this blocked\
time to your calendar.Note that you can block all locations or single locations, all services or single services, and set it to\
repeat every day, every weekday, weekly, or every other week. This can be used to support many\
scenarios, for example, a provider who works every other Thursday can set up their Thursday hours,\
and then block every other Thursday by choosing the "Every other week" option.\

\fs21 Shortcut: To quickly block availability in your calendar, you can open the dialog above by pressing and\
holding the Shift key while clicking on the day/time you want to block in your calendar.\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 Editing Recurring Blocked Time Series\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 To edit blocked time slots, simply click on any block of the series in the calendar and the "Block Time"\
dialog will open allowing you to modify the blocked time settings.
\fs31\fsmilli15750 Moving Individual Blocked Time\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 There is also a simple way to move an individual blocked time slot by drag-and-drop, as shown in the\
animation below.\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 Deleting Blocked Time\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 If you have blocked time and wish to delete that block to open the appointment time again for\
bookings, this process is very simple:\
1. Click on the specific time block that you'd like to remove.\
2. If it's a single time block you just click the orange "Delete" button in the bottom left corner of the\
"Block Time" dialog.\
3. If this is a series of blocked time slots, click that orange "Delete" button will remove the entire\
series.\
4. To delete individual blocks of a series, click the arrow on the right side of the orange "Delete"\
button, then select "Delete Individual Block".
\fs36 Team Calendar\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 You can also block availability for your team members by using the Team Calendar. When blocking a\
time in the Team Calendar, you will be able to select the practitioner you are blocking time for, or\
choose the "All practitioners" option to block time for all practitioners.\
When you block a time slot for the whole team, it will show up in the Team Calendar, as well as in all\
individual calendars, as a dark grey block.
\f2\b0\fs24 \uc0\u58880  
\fs18 Still need help? Contact Us (#)\
Last updated on November 2, 2022\

\f0\b RELATED ARTICLES\

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Sync with Google Calendar (/article/163-sync-with-google-calendar)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Add Availability Outside of Your Regular Hours (/article/121-add-availability-outsite-of-\
your-regular-hours)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Sync with Microsoft Outlook (/article/234-syncing-with-microsoft-outlook)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Can I Edit a Google Calendar Event Inside IntakeQ? What About Reminders? (/article/79-\
can-i-edit-a-google-calendar-event-inside-intakeq)\

\fs16\fsmilli8100 \'a9 IntakeQ (https://practiceq.com) 2025. Powered by Help Scout (https://www.helpscout.com/docs-refer/?\
co=IntakeQ&utm_source=docs&utm_medium=footerlink&utm_campaign=Docs+Branding)
\fs46\fsmilli23100 How to Set Up Events or Group Appointments\
(Classes/Workshops)\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 IntakeQ alows you to set up group appointments, which enables you to offer events, classes, or\
workshops through your booking widget.\
Setting up group appointments can be done in a few ways:\
METHOD 1: This alows you to set a service as an event, which wil ignore most of your booking\
settings. It's a great option for irregular events occurring outside of your normal hours.\
METHOD 2: This involves setting services to work with your existing booking settings and time\
availability. It's often used with events that occur on a regular basis within your normal business\
hours.\

\fs36 METHOD 1: Setting the Service as an Event\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 You can set specific services as "Events". When you do this, the system lets you set up the specific\
dates for the events and ignores everything else regarding availability, with the exception of the "Lead\
Time" setting. This option is under the "Advanced" tab, you can see where to enable in in the\
screenshot below.Once you have enabled this option, click "Event Dates/Times" to setup when the event should be\
available. The only other step would be to setup a time block on your calendar if this event cuts into\
hours where other services can normaly be scheduled. To learn how to set time blocks, read the\
folowing article: How to Block Time Availability from my IntakeQ Calendar?\
(//support.intakeq.com/article/77-how-to-block-time-availability-from-my-intakeq-calendar)\

\fs36 METHOD 2: Creating Group Appointments within Normal\
Time Availability\

\fs27 1. Create Your Hours\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 It's likely that your group appointment schedule is different from your regular appointments schedule.\
For example, you may offer a group class on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 10AM, while the rest of the\
week is open for regular appointments.\
The folowing article explains how to create a set of hours that wil later be used to the group\
appointment: Setting Up Alternative Hours for a Service (//support.intakeq.com/article/139-setting-up-\
alternative-hours-for-a-service)\

\fs27 2. Create a Category for Your Group Appointments (Optional)
\fs22\fsmilli11250 Putting your group appointments in a different category wil make it easier for your clients to find\
them. If you haven't done so yet, create a category for your classes or workshops and another category\
for your regular appointments.\
The folowing article explains how to create categories and assign services to each category: How Do I\
Break My Services Down into Categories? (//support.intakeq.com/article/87-how-do-i-break-my-\
services-down-into-categories)\

\fs27 3. Configure the Service Settings\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 The last step is to create the actual service (or appointment type) and set up its properties. Below are\
the steps to do this:\
1. Navigate to "Bookings > Booking Settings" and go to the "Services" tab.\
2. Select or create the service you want to set as a group session.\
3. If you created a category for the group appointments on step #2, make sure to check it in the\
"Categories" field.\
4. Click on the "Advanced" tab on the left.\
5. Under "Max Appointments per Slot", adjust the number to the max number of\
appointments/clients for the session (30 slots = 30 max clients).\
6. If you created a set of business hours on step #1, select it in the "Hours" field.\
7. When done, click "Save".\

\f2\b0\fs24 \uc0\u58880  
\fs18 Still need help? Contact Us (#)\
Last updated on July 17, 2020\

\f0\b\fs16\fsmilli8100 \'a9 IntakeQ (https://practiceq.com) 2025. Powered by Help Scout (https://www.helpscout.com/docs-refer/?\
co=IntakeQ&utm_source=docs&utm_medium=footerlink&utm_campaign=Docs+Branding)
\fs46\fsmilli23100 How to Setup Online Booking and Payment\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 practiceQ offers a simple and affordable appointment management solution which includes an online\
scheduling widget, payment processing and appointment reminders\
(//support.intakeq.com/appointment-reminders/).\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 What is a Booking Widget and How Does it Work?\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 A booking widget is a self-contained application that you can place anywhere on your website to\
enable your visitors to book appointments with you.\
It works by copying and pasting a piece of code into one of your website pages. But before you do that,\
you need to set up what the widget will display, such as what services you offer, what times you are\
available, how customers will pay you, etc.\
This guide will show you how to set up your booking widget and how to get the code that you need to\
paste in your website.\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 1. Go to Your Booking Settings\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 1. Click on the "Bookings" main menu item.\
2. Click on the "Bookings Settings" button in the upper right corner of the screen.\
On the settings screen you\'92ll see multiple tabs. Let\'92s go through each one of them and fill out the\
needed information.\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 2. Setup Your Locations and Hours of Operation\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 practiceQ supports multiple locations, so in case you work at different clinics, you can set the hours\
and services separately for each location. When you first open the booking settings, you\'92ll see that a\
location was added by default. All you have to do is to enter the address and hours of operation, as\
you can see below.
\f1\i\fs19\fsmilli9750 Start typing the address and Google maps autocomplete will kick in.\
Setting up the hours for a location\

\f0\i0\fs22\fsmilli11250 In case you have more than one location, click on "Add Location" and repeat the same process.
\fs31\fsmilli15750 3. Setup Your Services\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 The next thing you\'92ll do is to enter the services you offer. Clicking on "Add Service" will open a form\
where you can enter the details of a service.\
These fields are self-explanatory, but pay special attention to the "Form" tab. This is where you tell\
practiceQ which intake form (if any) you want your client to receive once he/she books this service.\
Once you set up your services, you can always go back to edit or delete them.
\fs31\fsmilli15750 4. Connect practiceQ to a Payment Provider 
\f1\i (optional)\

\f0\i0\fs22\fsmilli11250 If you want to receive online credit card payments from your clients, you need to connect\
your practiceQ account to a Payment Provider. If you don\'92t want to receive online payments, skip to the\
next section.\
See the following article for the payment providers we integrate with depending on your location:\
Supported Payment Providers (//support.intakeq.com/article/105-what-payment-providers-does-\
intakeq-support)\
They all offer an easy way for businesses to accept credit card payments online. They are free to set up\
and you\'92re charged a fee on every transaction, just like any credit card provider.\
Connecting with a payment provider is simple. Under the "Payments" tab, select the payment\
provider you will use and follow the instructions. Assuming everything goes smoothly, you will be\
redirected back to practiceQ and you should see a success message in the "Payments" tab.\
There are a couple of payment options you should set up here, as shown below.\

\fs27 Payment Settings
\fs22\fsmilli11250 This section will impact the scheduling workflow. You can require a credit card number, make it\
optional, or not ask for a credit card.\
You can also choose what to do when a credit card is provided in the "Automatic Charge" field. The\
default setting will charge the client's credit card a few hours before the appointment, but you can\
choose to charge the card immediately upon booking or to not charge the client automatically at all.\

\fs27 Cancellation Policy\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 This is where you determine when your client can cancel the appointment without paying a\
cancellation fee and how much their credit card will be charged if they cancel irresponsibly.\

\f1\i IMPORTANT: Please note that if you manually cancel an appointment for a client, you'd need to manually\
issue an invoice if you want them to be charged. The automatic change only works if the client cancels the\
appointment themselves and had a credit card on file when the appointment was scheduled.
\f0\i0\fs31\fsmilli15750 5. Tweak your Widget Settings\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 The Settings tab has several options that allow you to tweak how your booking widget behaves. Most of\
them are self-explanatory, and you can use the tool tips in the screen that describe some of the\
options.\

\fs27 "Fake it till you make it"\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 This is a useful feature for professionals who are starting out and don\'92t have many clients yet. When\
your clients go to your website to book an appointment, they won\'92t see that your whole day is empty.\
practiceQ will make it look like you\'92re busy by randomly making some time slots unavailable.\
You can choose to look super busy, moderately busy, or disable the feature.\

\fs27 Appointment Reminders\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 To learn more about how to set up appointment reminders, please refer to this article: Appointment\
Reminders (//support.intakeq.com/appointment-reminders/) (//support.intakeq.com/appointment-\
reminders/)\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 6. Sync with External Calendar\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 Connecting practiceQ to your external calendar (Google or Outlook calendar) offers two great benefits:\
1. Every appointment made through the booking widget will automatically be created in your external\
calendar.\
2. The booking widget will use your external calendar to determine your availability before displaying\
your open spots.\
To give practiceQ permission to access your external calendar, go to "Bookings > Booking Settings"\
and then select the "Sync" tab. Once inside, click on the button "Connect with Google Calendar /\
Outlook Calendar".practiceQ will ask you to authenticate your Google / Microsoft account and give access to your\
calendar. Once permission is granted, you should be redirected back to practiceQ and see a success\
message in the Sync tab.
\fs31\fsmilli15750 7. Preview and Test Your Widget\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 You can now test your widget in the "Preview" tab.\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 8. Place the Widget in Your Website\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 In the last tab you\'92ll find the code snippet that you need to paste in a page in your website. The widget\
background is transparent, so it will naturally blend with the background color of its container in your\
website.\

\f2\b0\fs24 \uc0\u58880  
\fs18 Still need help? Contact Us (#)\
Last updated on July 19, 2023\

\f0\b RELATED ARTICLES\

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Customize Your Booking Website (/article/92-customize-your-booking-website)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Adding Custom Fields to Your Booking Widget (/article/132-adding-custom-fields-to-your-\
booking-widget)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Appointments With Multiple Clients (Couples, Families, etc.) (/article/213-appointments-\
with-multiple-clients)
\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Specific Booking Widget/Links for Each Location, Category, Service or Practitioner\
(/article/86-can-i-have-one-booking-widget-for-each-office-location)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Enable Color-Coded Services In Your Calendar (/article/214-enable-color-coded-services-in-\
your-calendar)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Adding a Practitioner Bio & Picture to the Booking Widget (/article/88-adding-practitioner-\
picture-to-booking-widget)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Enable Your Booking Widget in the Client Portal (/article/196-enable-your-booking-widget-\
in-your-secure-portal)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Appointment Rescheduling Policy (/article/203-appointment-rescheduling-policy)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Booking Widget Javascript Events (/article/243-booking-widget-javascript-events)\

\fs16\fsmilli8100 \'a9 IntakeQ (https://practiceq.com) 2025. Powered by Help Scout (https://www.helpscout.com/docs-refer/?\
co=IntakeQ&utm_source=docs&utm_medium=footerlink&utm_campaign=Docs+Branding)
\fs46\fsmilli23100 Recurring Appointments\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 This article describes how to create recurring appointments in your practiceQ calendar.\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 Creating a Recurring Series\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 1. The first step is to create the first appointment in the series.\
2. Once the first appointment is saved, open it again and click on "More > Recurring".\
3. Set the recurrence parameters and click on "Create Appointments".You're able to set how often appointments recur and on what day of the week, as well as how many\
appointments are in the series and/or an end date.\
Please note that the system is limited to allow up to 30 appointments to be created at one time\
through recurrence. We would suggest setting up a task reminder to setup further recurring\
appointments if needed: Task Management (//support.intakeq.com/article/362-task-management)\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 Display Overlaps When Scheduling Recurring Appts\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 There is a setting that will warn you if the appts you are about to book in a recurring appt series will\
overlap already existing appts on the calendar. To enable this setting. Go to "Bookings > Booking\
Settings > Settings Tab > Recurring Appointments sectionWith this enabled, you will see the overlaps and can select a different appt time on the spot!\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 Stopping a Recurring Series\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 If you need to stop a recurring series of appointments, load up the last actual appointment you want in\
the series, then click "More > Stop Recurrence".Assuming this is not the last appointment in the series, you'll be prompted asking what you'd like to\
have happen with the remaining appointments.\
If you select "Yes" here the remaining appointments after the one you're on will be deleted, otherwise\
the series will not be stopped and no appointments are impacted.\

\f2\b0\fs24 \uc0\u58880  
\fs18 Still need help? Contact Us (#)\
Last updated on May 27, 2024
\f0\b RELATED ARTICLES\

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 How to Block Time Availability from my IntakeQ Calendar? (/article/77-how-to-block-time-\
availability-from-my-practiceq-calendar)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Add Availability Outside of Your Regular Hours (/article/121-add-availability-outsite-of-\
your-regular-hours)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Setting Up Alternative Hours for a Service (/article/139-setting-up-alternative-hours-for-a-\
service)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 How to Change the Duration of an Appointment (/article/202-how-to-change-the-duration-\
of-an-appointment)\

\fs16\fsmilli8100 \'a9 IntakeQ (https://practiceq.com) 2025. Powered by Help Scout (https://www.helpscout.com/docs-refer/?\
co=IntakeQ&utm_source=docs&utm_medium=footerlink&utm_campaign=Docs+Branding)
\fs46\fsmilli23100 Secure Client Portal Features\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 PracticeQ offers a secure client portal that gives your clients a web interface they can access to\
exchange messages with you and perform various other tasks, such as scheduling appointments,\
viewing intake forms, paying for invoices, sharing documents, and more. Below is a review of which\
options you can enable or disable for your clients to customize the functionality available in your client\
portal.\
You'll want to ensure you have setup your client portal access controls. You can allow your clients to\
register themselves, or invite them manually to the portal. For more information on this, see the\
following articles:\
Inviting Clients to Your Client Portal (//support.intakeq.com/article/171-inviting-clients-to-your-\
messaging-portal)\
Enable Client Portal Self Registration (//support.intakeq.com/article/178-enable-portal-self-\
registration)\

\f1\i The above video is a brief tour through the portal, its features and settings.
\f0\i0\fs36 Portal Settings\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 To access the options available in your client portal, follow the steps below:\
1. Navigate to the secure portal by clicking the speech bubble icon in the top blue menu bar.\
2. Click on "Settings" in the top right corner.\
3. Click the "Portal Features" tab.\
Here you'll find various features you can enable or disable for your client portal, each is described\
below:\
Allow clients to book appointments in my portal: This option will give your clients the ability to\
schedule appointments directly from the portal. It adds a "Book Now" button that directly opens\
your booking widget in the portal. For more information on this, see the following article: Enable\
Your Booking Widget in the Client Portal (//support.intakeq.com/article/196-enable-your-booking-\
widget-in-your-secure-portal)\
Allow clients to view their forms in my portal: This option allows your clients to view intake\
forms that you've sent to them, as well as any forms they have submitted in the past. For intakesnot yet completed, clients will be presented with an option to complete the form, for any they have\
submitted already they'll be able to open the PDF version of the form. For more information on\
sending forms to clients using the client portal, see the following article: How to Send Forms Using\
the Client Portal (//support.intakeq.com/article/174-how-to-send-forms-using-the-messaging-\
portal)\
Allow clients to view their invoices in my portal: This option will allow your clients to view any\
past invoices issued to them, or give them the ability to pay outstanding invoices. When paying\
invoices, clients are able to use a previously stored credit card on their account.\
Allow clients to print their superbills in my portal: This option will let your clients print\
superbills for any paid invoices, as long as the required superbill information is in place (diagnosis\
codes, procedure codes, etc.). For more information about superbills, see the following article: How\
to Create Superbills (//support.intakeq.com/article/262-how-to-create-superbills)\
Allow clients to view their appointments and packages in my portal: This option will display\
any past or upcoming appointments for your clients in the portal. This gives them the ability to\
cancel and reschedule upcoming appointments. It will also show any service packages your clients\
have signed up for, and allow them to book the appointments that are a part of the package.\
Allow clients to view shared documents in my portal: This option allows your clients to view any\
documents you have shared with them directly in the client portal. For more information on\
sending clients documents using the client portal, see the following article: How to Share Notes\
Using the Client Portal (//support.intakeq.com/article/180-how-to-share-notes-using-the-\
messaging-portal)\
Allow clients to view signature requests in my portal: This option allows your clients to view any\
signature requests you have sent them in the portal so they can easily sign-off on them as required.\
For more information on sending signature requests to clients, see the following article: Secure\
Signature Requests (//support.intakeq.com/article/215-secure-signature-requests)\
Allow clients to manage their credit card info in my portal: Clients are able to store their credit\
card information securely in our system, this option gives them the ability to manage their stored\
cards for use when booking appointments or paying invoices.
\fs36 Client View\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 Below is a basic view of what your clients will see upon logging in to their portal with all of the options\
described above enabled.\
There are a few additional notes in regards to the functionality your clients have in this portal:\
My Account: This option allows your clients to update their personal information directly through\
the client portal.\
Send Message: This option allows clients to send you secure messages. This is a great alternative\
to email when you need to share secure personal information or data. They can also share a file\
with you by clicking on "..." (under the message box) and selecting "Upload File".\

\fs36 Styling Your Portal\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 Are you looking to give your client portal a customized look with your logo and color scheme? If so, the\
following article will show you how to do this: Customizing the Look of Your Client Portal\
(//support.intakeq.com/article/258-customizing-the-look-of-your-client-portal)
\fs36 Autoresponder & Welcome Message\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 You are able to set an autoresponder on your portal, which is a message that will send to any clients\
that contact you within a specified period of time. Along with this, you can customize a welcome\
message that is sent when a new client first registers for your portal.
\f2\b0\fs24 \uc0\u58880  
\fs18 Still need help? Contact Us (#)\
Last updated on August 16, 2024\

\f0\b RELATED ARTICLES\

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Inviting Clients to Your Client Portal (/article/171-inviting-clients-to-your-messaging-portal)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Enable Client Portal Self Registration (/article/178-enable-portal-self-registration)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Customizing the Look of Your Client Portal (/article/258-customizing-the-look-of-your-\
client-portal)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Client Portal Autoresponder & Welcome Message (/article/212-messaging-portal-\
autoresponder)\

\f2\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Disable Messaging in the Client Portal (/article/434-disable-messaging-in-the-client-portal)\

\fs16\fsmilli8100 \'a9 IntakeQ (https://practiceq.com) 2025. Powered by Help Scout (https://www.helpscout.com/docs-refer/?\
co=IntakeQ&utm_source=docs&utm_medium=footerlink&utm_campaign=Docs+Branding)
\fs46\fsmilli23100 Team Calendar\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 The team calendar offers a way to access and manage appointments for multiple practitioners in a\
single calendar. This view is available for account admins and any practitioners who are given\
appropriate permissions.\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 Setting Permissions\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 To give a practitioner access to the team calendar, you must assign them to a role that has access to\
the team calendar. Under the roles settings (//support.intakeq.com/article/179-setting-user-\
permissions), you will find two permissions related to the team calendar: "Can view Team Calendar"\
and "Can manage Team Calendar". Once you set up a role with the desired permissions, just assign\
the role to the practitioner under "More > Team > Practitioners".\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 Accessing the Team Calendar\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 To access the team calendar, click on the "Bookings" menu and then on the "Team" button located at\
the top right corner of the page.Notice in the image above a color coded list of practitioners. You can click on each practitioner to\
show/hide their respective appointments.\

\fs31\fsmilli15750 Team Calendar Timezone Display\

\fs22\fsmilli11250 By default the team calendar displays appointments in each practitioners timezone, there is a link\
directly below the calendar where you can choose to force all appointments to show in your timezone\
instead if you wish.
\f2\b0\fs24 \uc0\u58880  
\fs18 Still need help? Contact Us (#)\
Last updated on January 6, 2024\

\f0\b RELATED ARTICLES\

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf3 \uc0\u58884  
\f0\b \cf2 Finding Available Times in the Team Calendar (/article/245-finding-available-times-in-the-\
team-calendar)\

\fs16\fsmilli8100 \'a9 IntakeQ (https://practiceq.com) 2025. Powered by Help Scout (https://www.helpscout.com/docs-refer/?\
co=IntakeQ&utm_source=docs&utm_medium=footerlink&utm_campaign=Docs+Branding)}